14 culinary secrets used only by
restaurant chefs we at bright side love
overcoming challenges
that's why we've collected 14 of the
most useful culinary hacks that will not
only save your time and ease your nerves
but also boost your skills in the
kitchen do you want to know how to cook
a perfect piece of bacon prevent a
sliced cake from getting stale and make
sure that knife won't slip and cut you
while you're using it watch this video
and you'll be in the know hit the like
button if you come across a tip you've
never heard of number 14 Frank perfect
hamburger patties if you want your
burger to fry fast and evenly form a
dimple in the center of the patty before
throwing it on the pan it'll disappear
by the time the burgers are ready since
they even out while they cook and this
simple trick will cut down the cooking
time and prevent that annoying weird
burger bubbling we've all witnessed at
one time or another
number thirteen cutting a nice piece of
cake you're probably all too familiar
with the problem of cake sticking to the
knife when you go to slice it you always
get that mini panic attack as you watch
the beauty of your dessert being ruined
by your own hand to avoid this
catastrophe put the knife under hot
running water hold it there for some
time and then cut your cake this simple
gesture will prevent the sweet goodness
from sticking to the blade number twelve
making a lemon juice spray it's actually
pretty easy to make your own lemon juice
spray it's take a small spritzer into a
lemon and it'll work just like any other
kitchen or bathroom spray pump if it
feels like the liquid inside has run out
squeeze the lemon and you'll get more
juice out of it
number eleven determining portion sizes
with your hand sometimes you don't have
a kitchen scale on hand but the recipe
calls for exact measurements no worries
just use your own hand to measure out
the portions you need when we're talking
about things like butter margarine or
mayonnaise
your fingernail will help you out it's
size equals one teaspoon of these types
of ingredients to weigh fish or meat put
it on the palm of your hand if it fits
just within the palm it weighs about
three and a half ounces if you really
need to determine the correct portion of
chips or crackers you have again pour
them out into your palms two handfuls of
these crunchy delights will equal about
one ounce or you could just eat the
whole bag nobody's judging one handful
of pasta rice or beans will be the same
as 1/2 a cup of these product
the size of your thumb will equal one or
two tablespoons of cheese or peanut
butter and finally to get the right
measurements of grains soup fruits and
vegetables remember that one fist is the
same as 1 cup of these foods number 10
preventing the knife from slipping the
kitchen can be an area of heightened
danger especially when you're dealing
with sharp objects like knives you
should always keep knife handles clean
and grease free but if you want to take
extra care to stop your knife from
slipping wrap some rubber bands around
the handle number 9 figuring out how
sour a lemon is there's one simple trick
here
the thinner the peel the more sour the
lemon armed with this knowledge you can
go to the grocery store and confidently
choose the best option for your citrus
fruit needs if its outer shell feels a
bit soft its sourness is somewhere in
the middle of the range while the harder
lemons will bring tears to your eyes
number eight frying a sausage if you fry
sausages in a pan you might face the
problem of uneven cooking to deal with
this issue and to fry them uniformly
both inside and out make small cuts
along the sausages and use low heat to
cook them
problem solved number seven checking if
an egg is fresh you open your fridge and
skeptically observe the eggs on the
shelves how long have they been in there
are they still good to fry with bacon a
simple visual test will help you check
if you missed the chance to have a
delicious and safe omelet crack an egg
onto a white plate and pay attention to
the egg white and the yolk
if they're a bit too much on the runny
side this egg isn't as fresh as it
should be also if it doesn't have any
green gray or black spots it's probably
still good to eat number six keeping a
sliced cake fresh if you've recently got
a delicious cake for your birthday but
can't manage to eat it all at once don't
worry there's one very creative way to
prevent it from getting stale attached
slices of toast to the cut edges of the
cake using toothpicks this way
your lovely pastry will be safely
protected until you get the urge to cut
into it again number five calculating
the time needed to boil a perfect egg
are you a picky one when it comes to how
you like your hard-boiled eggs and
you'll find this tip to be excellent be
honest you like that one boil an egg for
two minutes if you like the yolk thin
and runny the white on the runny side to
four minutes if you prefer a completely
cooked white with thick runny yolk in 6
minutes if you want an egg with a
completely cooked white and mostly
cooked yolk no still a bit runny in the
very middle eight minutes if your
favourite egg is one of the fully cooked
white and the soft yolk ten minutes if
you like both the yolk and the white
cooked completely to their max number
four storing leafy greens it's better to
store leafy greens wrapped up in foil as
it holds the right amount of moisture
inside this way your delicious healthy
greens will stay fresh much longer
number three cooking the perfect bacon
the secret to cooking the perfect bacon
is simple bake your bacon you need to
pre-heat your oven to 400 degrees
Fahrenheit and place the bacon on a
piece of foil bake it for 12 minutes
make it 15 to 20 if the bacon is thick
then get your tongs out and transfer it
onto a plate covered with paper towel to
let it drain and finish getting crispy
number two reheating pizza if you've
cooked up a nice homemade pizza or let's
be honest the delivery guy just brought
it piping hot but it's managed to get
cold while you're so politely waiting
for family or friends to arrive simply
throwing it back into the oven to reheat
won't work your perfect pizza will
quickly become drier and tougher than it
was when it just came out of the oven
but there is one trick that will help to
reheat Pizza properly spray it with some
water before heating it up in the oven
nobody will ever know the difference
number one cutting steak correctly meat
lovers listen up cut your steak against
the grain this way it won't tear apart
and you'll get perfect slices lost your
meat will become easier to chew and it's
no wonder you've already done the
hardest work and broken up the muscle
fibers bonus if you're the type of
person who can appreciate the taste of
an Oreo cookie dipped in a cold glass of
milk aren't y'all here's a trick for you
to dip the whole cookie in the glass and
avoid getting your fingers covered in
crumbs or milk use a fork stick the
prongs between the top and the bottom of
the cookie where it's creamy
deliciousness is found and hold it in
the milk for as long as your little
heart desires
do you know any other cooking tips that
even the world's top chefs don't know
show off your knowledge in the comments
below also be sure to share this video
with the amateur chefs in your life if
these culinary hacks can get 50,000
likes we'll uncover the hidden secrets
of the most experienced bartenders that
they aren't willing to share oh and
remember to join us on the bright side
of life you'll have a lot of fun here